.TH HTML2MARKDOWN 1 "November 21, 2006" Pandoc "User Manuals"
.SH NAME
html2markdown \- converts HTML to markdown-formatted text
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhtml2markdown\fR [\fIoptions\fR] [\fB\-o\fR \fIoutput-file\fR] 
[\fIinput-file\fR or \fIURL\fR] [\fB\-\-\fR \fIpandoc\-opts\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBhtml2markdown\fR converts \fIinput-file\fR or \fIURL\fR (or text
from STDIN) from HTML to markdown-formatted plain text.  Output is
sent to STDOUT unless another destination is specified using the
\fB\-o\fR option. \fBhtml2markdown\fR uses an available program
(e.g. wget, w3m, lynx or curl) to fetch the contents of the URL.
.PP
\fBhtml2markdown\fR is a wrapper for \fBpandoc\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Show usage message.
.TP
.B \-g \fIcommand\fR
Use \fIcommand\fR to fetch the contents of a URL.  (By default,
\fBhtml2markdown\fR searches for an available program or text-based
browser to fetch the contents of a URL.)
.TP
.B \-n
Disable automatic fetching of contents when URLs are specified as
arguments.
.TP
.B \-o \fIoutput-file\fR
Send output to \fIoutput-file\fR instead of STDOUT.
.TP
.B \-\-
Any options appearing after ` \-\- ' on the command line will be passed
directly to \fBpandoc\fR.  See \fBpandoc\fR(1) for a list of options
that may be used.  Options specified in this way will override
PANDOC_OPTS (see below).  Example:
.IP
html2markdown input.txt -- -R
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Any command-line options contained in the PANDOC_OPTS environment variable
will be passed directly to \fBpandoc\fR.  See \fBpandoc\fR(1)
for a list of options that may be used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBpandoc\fR(1),
\fBmarkdown2html\fR(1),
\fBmarkdown2latex\fR(1),
\fBlatex2markdown\fR(1),
\fBmarkdown2pdf\fR(1)
.SH AUTHOR
John MacFarlane and Recai Oktas
